# genetik
GENETIK is a blockchain-based data synchronization framework

Data synchronization methods are developing rapidly along with the development of cloud technology. The growth of cloud-based applications has driven a larger and more diverse data supply. Data governance is very important to support application services that can run on internet network infrastructure in remote areas. Data synchronization is important in the data governance process. The data synchronization process requires clean and consistent data. Poor network connection quality can cause data conflicts. Data conflicts can lead to errors and poor data quality. Blockchain promises a secure solution to distributed data synchronization systems. Data clustering forms a more structured data set that can be used to optimize the distributed data synchronization process. This research aims to develop a Proof-of-Authority blockchain consensus protocol as a cluster data synchronization method in distributed cloud computing. The results of the research are a clustered data synchronization (CDS) framework blockchain which is a development of the previous research of blockchain consensus Byzantine Fault Tolerance (BFT) algorithm. The benefits of research as an alternative solution in cases of clustered data synchronization in distributed systems. The advantage of the clustered data synchronization (CDS) blockchain framework is addition of K-means Elbow method to the clustering layer which is used as an input variable for blockchain smart contract consensus algorithm Proof-of-Authority in the data synchronization process.
